


Stewards Coordination and Transparency
https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61
    > It is so exciting to see so many awesome **Stewards** raising their hands to participate in this experiment, I would like to propose some structured governance processes to help keep #governance-meta running smoothly ðŸ’¡

For starters I think a regular meeting cadence, a place to review notes, and a way to upload recorded video content will be essential for transparency and information asymmetry among the working groups. 

*The Stewards have been formed to help create, review, and approve proposals. I understand that not everyone will be able to attend all meetings though, due to time-zones, scheduling conflicts and what have you.* 

**So might I suggest a one hour meeting, once per month starting in June ?** 

Until the amount of proposal hits a more substantial figure I think a monthly call is enough to keep the stakeholders informed while not becoming burdensome.

## Drop your availability starting June on the [Doodle](https://doodle.com/poll/dxru3mppxr9tpyp7?utm_source=poll&utm_medium=link)ðŸ“…

I would also like to propose the following: 

**Steward Calls be recorded and uploaded** to the Gitcoin Governance Youtube ( where is TBD) for the maximum transparency around decision making. 

**Meeting Notes** from each meeting should be kept in something like Hack.md and uploaded to the appropriate Forum category [Meta Governance
](https://gov.gitcoin.co/c/governance-meta/6) in this case. 

I am raising my hand to host these monthly meetings for the time being and I have a Zoom pro account to ensure that all the content is recorded, I would be glad to have someone help me with note taking if that's interesting to you ! 

**TL:DR Please add your availability starting June for our Steward Governance Kick-off call  [Doodle](https://doodle.com/poll/dxru3mppxr9tpyp7?utm_source=poll&utm_medium=link)ðŸ“…**
Fri, 28 May 2021 00:53:13 +0000
ðŸ¤– DAO Governance and Vision


Stewards Coordination and Transparency
calbear4life

            <p>If possible, Iâ€™d like to be added to these calls. The Doodle link has been closed. Thanks</p>
          <p><a href="https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/6">Read full topic</a></p>
        
https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/6
        Fri, 28 May 2021 00:53:13 +0000
gov.gitcoin.co-post-61-6
Stewards Coordination and Transparency
      

Stewards Coordination and Transparency
Yalor

            <p>Thanks to <a class="mention-group" href="https://gov.gitcoin.co/groups/everyone">@everyone</a> for participating in this Doodle poll, the poll is now closed and highest voted time was June 7th 9am PST. I have created that event in my calendar and invited those of you who added your emails.</p>
<p>If you would like to be added to that event, feel free to DM me your email here or on Telegram <span class="mention">@Yalormewn</span> looking forward to kicking this discussion off with you all in a couple weeks <img src="https://emoji.discourse-cdn.com/twitter/leg.png?v=9" title=":leg:" class="emoji" alt=":leg:"> cheers Stewards !</p>
<p><a href="https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&amp;tmeid=MWoxaTFyYWF1cGRlcWN1bTZzZzQ3YXF0ZWZfMjAyMTA2MDdUMTYwMDAwWiB5YWxvckBtZXRhY2FydGVsLm9yZw&amp;tmsrc=yalor%40metacartel.org&amp;scp=ALL" class="onebox" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&amp;tmeid=MWoxaTFyYWF1cGRlcWN1bTZzZzQ3YXF0ZWZfMjAyMTA2MDdUMTYwMDAwWiB5YWxvckBtZXRhY2FydGVsLm9yZw&amp;tmsrc=yalor%40metacartel.org&amp;scp=ALL</a></p>
          <p><a href="https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/5">Read full topic</a></p>
        
https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/5
        Sun, 23 May 2021 07:43:17 +0000
gov.gitcoin.co-post-61-5
Stewards Coordination and Transparency
      

Stewards Coordination and Transparency
Jiajia

            <p>Would love to fly-on-the-wall the monthly meeting!</p>
          <p><a href="https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/4">Read full topic</a></p>
        
https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/4
        Wed, 19 May 2021 06:59:28 +0000
gov.gitcoin.co-post-61-4
Stewards Coordination and Transparency
      

Stewards Coordination and Transparency
ceresstation

            <p>Amazing, thanks <a class="mention" href="https://gov.gitcoin.co/u/anett">@Anett</a>! Just filled out the Doodle on my side looks like we already have a great group responding.</p>
          <p><a href="https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/3">Read full topic</a></p>
        
https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/3
        Thu, 13 May 2021 15:37:20 +0000
gov.gitcoin.co-post-61-3
Stewards Coordination and Transparency
      

Stewards Coordination and Transparency
Anett

            <p>Iâ€™m happy to help out with notes <img src="https://emoji.discourse-cdn.com/twitter/memo.png?v=9" title=":memo:" class="emoji" alt=":memo:"></p>
          <p><a href="https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/2">Read full topic</a></p>
        
https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/2
        Wed, 12 May 2021 08:26:55 +0000
gov.gitcoin.co-post-61-2
Stewards Coordination and Transparency
      

Stewards Coordination and Transparency
Yalor

            <blockquote>
<p>It is so exciting to see so many awesome <strong>Stewards</strong> raising their hands to participate in this experiment, I would like to propose some structured governance processes to help keep <span class="hashtag-raw">#governance-meta</span> running smoothly <img src="https://gov.gitcoin.co/images/emoji/twitter/bulb.png?v=12" title=":bulb:" class="emoji" alt=":bulb:" loading="lazy" width="20" height="20"></p>
</blockquote>
<p>For starters I think a regular meeting cadence, a place to review notes, and a way to upload recorded video content will be essential for transparency and information asymmetry among the working groups.</p>
<p><em>The Stewards have been formed to help create, review, and approve proposals. I understand that not everyone will be able to attend all meetings though, due to time-zones, scheduling conflicts and what have you.</em></p>
<p><strong>So might I suggest a one hour meeting, once per month starting in June ?</strong></p>
<p>Until the amount of proposal hits a more substantial figure I think a monthly call is enough to keep the stakeholders informed while not becoming burdensome.</p>
<h2><a name="drop-your-availability-starting-june-on-the-doodlehttpsdoodlecompolldxru3mppxr9tpyp7utm_sourcepollutm_mediumlink-1" class="anchor" href="https://gov.gitcoin.co#drop-your-availability-starting-june-on-the-doodlehttpsdoodlecompolldxru3mppxr9tpyp7utm_sourcepollutm_mediumlink-1"></a>Drop your availability starting June on the <a href="https://doodle.com/poll/dxru3mppxr9tpyp7?utm_source=poll&amp;utm_medium=link">Doodle</a><img src="https://gov.gitcoin.co/images/emoji/twitter/date.png?v=12" title=":date:" class="emoji only-emoji" alt=":date:" loading="lazy" width="20" height="20"></h2>
<p>I would also like to propose the following:</p>
<p><strong>Steward Calls be recorded and uploaded</strong> to the Gitcoin Governance Youtube ( where is TBD) for the maximum transparency around decision making.</p>
<p><strong>Meeting Notes</strong> from each meeting should be kept in something like Hack.md and uploaded to the appropriate Forum category <a href="https://gov.gitcoin.co/c/governance-meta/6">Meta Governance<br>
</a> in this case.</p>
<p>I am raising my hand to host these monthly meetings for the time being and I have a Zoom pro account to ensure that all the content is recorded, I would be glad to have someone help me with note taking if thatâ€™s interesting to you !</p>
<p><strong>TL:DR Please add your availability starting June for our Steward Governance Kick-off call  <a href="https://doodle.com/poll/dxru3mppxr9tpyp7?utm_source=poll&amp;utm_medium=link">Doodle</a><img src="https://gov.gitcoin.co/images/emoji/twitter/date.png?v=12" title=":date:" class="emoji only-emoji" alt=":date:" loading="lazy" width="20" height="20"></strong></p>
          <p><a href="https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/1">Read full topic</a></p>
        
https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/stewards-coordination-and-transparency/61/1
        Mon, 10 May 2021 20:37:09 +0000
gov.gitcoin.co-post-61-1
Stewards Coordination and Transparency
      


